### What is a Framework in JAVA?
  A Framework is a set of classes and interfaces which provides a ready-made architecture.
  Inorder to build any new features no need of writing any boilerplate codes. 

### Need of a separate collection Framework in JAVA ?
 Before introducing Collection Framework, we used to store the collection of objects in an
 Array. If you want to implement any data structure then you need to create your own Classes.
 Even though the operations are same you end up creating multiple methods which is very hard to
 remember. 

 After Introducing Collection Framework, The code are organized in a proper manner and depends on the 
 behaviour, the implementation classes are organized.

 ---
### Problems with Array ?
1. Arrays are fixed in nature.
2. There is no inbuilt methods are there in array.
3. Homogenous in nature.(we can store single type).

**solutions**
1. Collections are growable in nature.
2. Collections can hold both homogenous and heterogeneous objects.
3. Every Collection is designed based on a Specific DataStructure.
---
### Collection Framework
It contains several classes and interfaces which can be used to represent a 
group of individual objects as a single entity.

---
# Collection(I)
This is the Base interface of all the classes, Abstract classes and Interfaces
which are comes under collection framework. So that the common method used in all
the collections are defined over here. like :
1. boolean add(Obj o)
2. boolean addAll(Collection<Object> objs)
3. boolean remove(Obj o)
4. boolean removeAll(Collection<Obj> obj)
5. boolean clear() 
6. int size()
7. boolean contains(Object obj)
8. boolean containsAll(Collection<Obj> objs)
9. Obj[] toArray()
10. isEmpty()
11. boolean equals(Collection<T> col)
12. int hashCode()

---
## List<I>  
`public interface List<T> extends Collection<T>` 

- Duplicates are allowed
- Insertion order must be preserved.

1. void add(int index, Object obj)
2. void addAll(int index, Collection<T> col)
3. void remove(int index)
4. Object get(int index)
5. Object set(int index, Object o)
6. int indexOf(Object ocj)
7. int lastIndexOf(Object obj)

Implementations Classes :
1. ArrayList<T>
2. LinkedList<T>
3. Stack
4. Vector

---

## ArrayList<T> 

The underline DataStructure is Resizable Array or Growable Array.

- Allowed Duplicate elements.
- Insertion order is preserved.
- Null value can be inserted.
- ArrayList implements RandomAccess interface.

Constructor : 
1. ArrayList() {}  // 10
2. ArrayList(int initialCapacity) {} // initialCapacity
3. ArrayList(Collection col) {} 

How arrayList grow ?
- considering 75% as load factor it increases by 50%
- ArrayList ar = new ArrayList(100); 
- ar = new ArrayList(100+50+1)

---
```Traversing : 
1. for Loop
    for(int i=0;i<list.size();i++) {
        student.get(0)
    } 
2. Extended For Loop
    List<Student> students;
    for(Student student : students) {
        
    }
3. Iterator
4. ListIterator```
```

## Linked List : 
Linear Data structure : The Elements  are directly linked to its next and previous elements.
Head -> FirstNode
Tail -> LastNode

Advantages : 
1. Can traverse forward and Backward.
2. Delete in middle or add in middle is very easy.

DisAdvantage : 
1. It contains 2 extra space for holding previous and next node. 

Insert Operation:
- Front
- End 
- Before Given element
- After Given element

Methods:
1. addFirst(E e)
2. add(E e)
3. add(int index, E e)
4. addAll(int index, Col<E> c)
5. addAll(Col c)
6. removeFirst()
7. remove(int index)
8. removeLast()
9. getFirst()
10. get(int index)
11. getLast()

---
## Cursor
- Enumuration
- Iterator
- ListIterator
- SplitIterator










